an invaluable gift of Asian Indian
tradition yoga has emerged as one of the
most trusted means to boost physical and
mental well-being International yoga day
is celebrated every year on 21st June
with the aim of making its importance
known to the masses
on 27 September 2014 the prime minister
of India SRI Narendra Modi suggested an
annual day of yoga on June 21st which
was endorsed by a record
175 member states recognizing its
Universal Appeal on 11 December 2014 the
United Nations proclaimed 21st June as
the International Day of yoga
21st June 2015 International yoga day
was celebrated for the first time all
over the world on this day more than 35
000 people performed yoga on the rajpath
in Delhi in which representatives of 84
countries participated
the team of international yoga day 2023
is one world one Health which is the
principle of vasudeva uttamkam and
harangan yoga this theme has been chosen
by the union Ministry of ayush nine
years after the United Nations
recognized June 21st as International
Day of yoga Prime Minister shinarayendra
Modi will lead the global community in
celebrating the day at the U.N
headquarters in New York this year
International yoga day is celebrated on
21st June as it is the longest day in
the northern hemisphere on this day the
Rays of the sun remain present on the
earth for the longest time this day is
also known as summer solstice yoga in
India originated over 5000 years ago
thus it is an ancient form of exercise
and meditation that was practiced as a
way to get closer to enlightenment
during covid-19 pandemic it was observed
that people from Hollywood to haridwar
wanted to know about yoga and ayurveda
people also paid serious attention to
yoga while staying at home yoga is the
journey of self to the self let's
inculcate yoga in our everyday regime
for a fit and active lifestyle wishing
everyone a very happy 9th Annual
International Day of yoga thank you so
much for watching the video bye bye
foreign
[Music]